#test

#tools to automatically fid differences between
#windows - FC
#mac - diff -u

#compare the new and old game in the file (location: Downloads)
#in the command line: diff -u game_old.js game_new.js
#find typo - "spacr" should be "space"

#open document with subl <file name>

#can always use pwd

#git log shows the saved versions

suggested questions for reflection:

How did viewing a diff between two versions of a file help you see the bug that
was introduced?

    diff streamlined the process of troubleshooting the existing problem and helped to speed up the process. 

How could having easy access to the entire history of a file make you a more
efficient programmer in the long term?

    This will enable me to work more efficiently and troubleshoot problems as they arise. No need to spend countless hours searching when all the answers can be found by comparing two separate versions with a command like "diff"

What do you think are the pros and cons of manually choosing when to create a
commit, like you do in Git, vs having versions automatically saved, like Google
docs does?

    Pros - you know that youre updating and the versions might be easier to find
    Cons - you could forget to update

Why do you think some version control systems, like Git, allow saving multiple
files in one commit, while others, like Google Docs, treat each file separately?

    You may need to reference a previous project and the size of a project may be much larger

How can you use the commands git log and git diff to view the history of files?

    by typing the commands in the command line for a specified project, you can view when certain changes were made

How might using version control make you more confident to make changes that
could break something?

    It enables the user to experiment without the fear of spending numerous hours going back and readjusting the changes

Now that you have your workspace set up, what do you want to try using Git for?

    I will conntinue to use it for educational projects and work.. when I get there
